In the last lecture, I talked about the color saturation which allows us to change the color of our different
bars right here in the chart.
Now as you saw in the pop-up window and also if you click onto the chart right here,
well this color saturation field apparently is gone.
The reason for that is that Power BI gets constantly updated by Microsoft, it's updated, improved,
new features are added and other features, older features are not available anymore.
That's not totally true to be honest because the color saturation is still here,
it just can be found in a different location right here in Power BI.
So for us, this means if you want to change the color of our bars, we can simply click right here onto
our format menu, right there
and here we can find the data colors menu,
this one. If we click onto that, you can see that we can change the overall color of our different bars
or go to the advanced controls,
we'll have a look at that in a few seconds.
Let's first click onto the default control and change it to red for example and as you can see,
no big surprise here,
the color of all our bars inside our visual changed.
Now let's switch it back to the third one right here
and let's now select show all right here because this would allow us to change the color of each bar in a chart
individually.
For example, we could go to Africa right here and switch it to yellow, like that,
so with that, we could change the color individually for each single bar in our chart.
I'd stick to the default value though, like that because actually I would like to change the colors automatically
depending on a certain value.
Now this sounds kind of strange but if you go to the advanced controls right here, then you can see
what I mean by that because in this menu, we can now change the color of different bars in our chart
depending of certain parameters.
Now I will not dive into all of these now,
just into the most important ones,
so let's get started by making sure that we format our bars by the color scale because that's what we wanted
to do,
remember we talked about color saturation in the older version of Power BI.
Now we can base our colors, so that color change of our charts on a field right here.
The default is the sum of the population right here,
that's the default value that is selected.
This simply means that our colors will change depending on the population number in a certain region,
so if Asia has a higher population than Europe which is normally the case, then Asia would have a different
color than the chart for Europe,
that's what is meant by that.
So you can click on to this and also select other values for that,
this could be for example, let's say the female population, just as an example, we'll stick to the total
population right here though,
so let's click right here once again to let this menu disappear.
Here we can define how this color change should be calculated, so what this color change should be based
on,
in our case it's the sum of the population value,
you could also take something like the average, the minimum, the maximum and so on,
also something we don't dive too deep into here right now,
it's more about the general logic,
so for us the sum is totally sufficient.
Here we have the default formatting which simply allows us to define how missing values or gaps in
our data should be displayed,
so these could be displayed as well not formatted values at all,
zero or with a specific color, I'll stick to a zero right here and then we can finally define the color
range right here. As you can see for the lowest value, we now have a default value of red which I would
like to change to this lighter, well blue, let's call it blue right here
and then we can also define the maximum maximum, so our highest value.
This is right here,
this darker blue color. You can also change the criteria for that color change, so it could be the lowest
value or a specific number,
same thing is true for the highest value, could also be a number
but in our case, this is actually what I would like to achieve.
So this basically means that if we have a higher amount of the population in a certain region, then the
color gets darker,
if we have a lower amount of the population, our color gets lighter.
So I felt like OK now, you can see that the color of our bars in the chart changed automatically,
so Asia has the highest population,
so we have the darkest color and Oceania or South America for example, North America have a lighter color
because the population is less right there.
So this is the updated color saturation right, so you have lots of options, how you can change the color of
the different bars in our charts which again helps us to make our visuals, our reports a bit more individual,
a bit more customized you could say. Of course this doesn't only work for the regions here,
if we go back right here to our fields ribbon, then we could also say that we don't want to display
our data by the different region names but we could also say that we go right here to our DIM-Region
field right here and drag the country as the axis value. If we now remove the region name,
we can now see that the formating also works on country level,
so if you go right here, you can see that the color gets a bit lighter
the less population a specific country has. Now of course we could add a broader color range right here
to make this differentiation a bit more clear
but the general logic works totally fine.
Now let's change it back to region name though because we want to stick to these data and let's get rid of
the country
and with that, we got our chart back which looks nice but it wasn't really comfortable you could say
because I had to drag the country right here as our axis,
then I had to delete the region name and then I had to drag the region name back into the country.
Wouldn't it be easier if we could kind of combine these two features in one single chart,
so if I would be able to switch between the region level view and the country view, well as I said in one
single chart?
Well the good thing is this is also possible in Power BI,
so we'll have to look at that feature in the next lecture.